# WiFiFP-Nav

This project estimates the location of a device based on WiFi signal strength. It includes a scanning component for collecting WiFi signal strength data and a position estimation component using an optimization algorithm to estimate the device's location.

## Table of Contents
- [WiFiFP-Nav](#wififp-nav)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [1. Clone the Repository](#1-clone-the-repository)
    - [2. Install vcpkg](#2-install-vcpkg)
    - [3. Install Dependencies via vcpkg](#3-install-dependencies-via-vcpkg)
    - [3.1 Install Dependencies for wifi\_scan](#31-install-dependencies-for-wifi_scan)
    - [4. Set Up the Build System](#4-set-up-the-build-system)
  - [Usage](#usage)
    - [Preparing Data for Pre-Localization](#preparing-data-for-pre-localization)
    - [Running the Localizator](#running-the-localizator)
  - [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)

## Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:
- **C++ Compiler**: e.g., g++, clang
- **CMake**
- **Python 3.x**
- **vcpkg**: For managing C++ dependencies
- **eigen3**: For linear algebra operations
- **gtsam**: For factor graph optimization
- **jsoncpp**: For JSON parsing

## Installation

### 1. Clone the Repository
Clone the project repository to your local machine:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/catenacciA/WiFiFP-Nav.git
cd WiFiFP-Nav
```

### 2. Install vcpkg
Install vcpkg for managing the project dependencies:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg.git /usr/local/vcpkg
cd /usr/local/vcpkg
./bootstrap-vcpkg.sh
./vcpkg integrate install
```

### 3. Install Dependencies via vcpkg
Use vcpkg to install the required libraries:
```sh
/usr/local/vcpkg/vcpkg install jsoncpp
/usr/local/vcpkg/vcpkg install gtsam
/usr/local/vcpkg/vcpkg install eigen3
```

### 3.1 Install Dependencies for wifi_scan
```sh
sudo apt-get install libmnl0 libmnl-dev
```

### 4. Set Up the Build System
Create a build directory and configure the project using CMake:
```sh
cd ~/WiFiFP-Nav
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=/usr/local/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake ..
make
```

## Usage

### Preparing Data for Pre-Localization
1. **Prepare the `lio_slam.txt` File**:
   - Obtain the `lio_slam.txt` file from your LIO-SLAM process. This file contains the normal LIO SLAM data.
   - Place the `lio_slam.txt` file in the same directory as the `map.py` script.

2. **Create a WiFi Folder**:
   - Inside the script directory, create a folder named `wifi`.
   - Collect WiFi scans in the environment where the localization will occur.
   - Ensure the filenames of these WiFi files are epoch timestamps corresponding to the time they were taken.
   - Synchronize these WiFi scans with the LIO-SLAM trajectory by ensuring they are taken simultaneously along the LIO-SLAM trajectory.

3. **File Placement**:
   - Place all the files (`lio_slam.txt` and WiFi scans) into the scripts directory.
   - Examples of `lio_slam` and WiFi files are available in the repository.

4. **Set Up Python Environment and Run `map.py`**:
   - Navigate to the scripts directory:
     ```sh
     cd scripts
     ```
   - Create a virtual environment and install dependencies:
     ```sh
     python3 -m venv venv
     source venv/bin/activate
     pip install -r requirements.txt
     ```
   - Run the `map.py` script:
     ```sh
     python map.py
     ```
   - The script will automatically use the `lio_slam` and `wifi` folders if they are placed correctly as indicated. This script will generate the dataset of the AP map that the main executable (`localizator`) will use. The generated AP map will be saved as `ap_positions.csv`.

### Running the Localizator
To run the localizator, execute the following command:
```sh
cd build
sudo ./localizator
```

This command will start the WiFi scan process and estimate the device's location based on the WiFi signal strength. The estimated location will be displayed in the terminal. The estimated location is based on the WiFi signal strength and the AP map generated by the `map.py` script.

If you prefer to use a pre-recorded scan file, you can record a WiFi scan at the desired location and create a CSV file with the following header:
```
MAC Address,RSSI Value,Mean,STD,Frequency
```
This CSV setup is primarily for testing purposes, but users can opt to use this file format.

To run the optimizator without making a new scan, use the following command:
```sh
sudo ./localizator --use-file
```

## Acknowledgements
This project includes the following libraries:
- [wifi-scan](https://github.com/bmegli/wifi-scan): C/C++ library for scanning WiFi signals
- [jsoncpp](https://github.com/open-source-parsers/jsoncpp): JSON parser for C++
- [gtsam](https://github.com/borglab/gtsam): Library for factor graph optimization

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! To contribute, please follow these steps:
1. Fork the repository.
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`).
5. Open a Pull Request.

## License
This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
